# Grant Process Part Two

Since the last time I posted about my grant project, I have been focusing on revision more than anything. I come away from each peer review with a better understanding of where my project should be and what I need to do to make my grant application stronger. Since this is all new to me, I found this to be an important part of the process. It always helps to have someone else read over my work and point out all the gaps or questions I left unanswered.
  
Spending time writing the grant application has given me an opportunity to learn more about my project itself. Writing an environmental scan and a grant narrative required a lot of reflection on why my project was important and why I wanted to move forward with this project. I started this process thinking that I didn’t care what I was doing as long as I was engaging with works of literature on my own podcast. With a podcast about the works of Shakespeare and the digital humanities projects inspired by them, I was able to achieve this goal.
  
In writing the proposal, however, I realized that my project was bigger than me. That sounds like an obvious statement. If there’s a podcast, there should be an audience, right? I came to the conclusion that my audience was the most important part of the project itself. Not long ago, I wanted to be a high school English teacher, so my natural instinct was to help high school students learn about Shakespeare and the field of digital humanities simultaneously.

This, then, became my mission. It was no longer about me or what I wanted to talk about. It was about all of the students that were not given the opportunity to learn about digital humanities. I know that students can benefit from digital humanities, and in turn, the digital humanities field can benefit from the increased exposure! 

Here I am, at the end of this grant writing process, and I fully believe in my project and its mission. I feel inspired. Even though I am not planning to go into teaching any more, I have decided to share these resources and experiences with some teachers that I am still in contact with. Even using digital humanities as a visual or as another resource can help teachers vary their approach and reach other students that get lost in lectures. This is more relevant than ever before because so many teachers had to adjust their teaching to the virtual realm due to the current pandemic.

Looking at this project as a whole, I have learned a lot. I started the project feeling unsure and confused. After emailing back and forth with Dr. Stover and going through multiple peer reviews, I gained confidence in my work. I didn’t even know what Digital Humanities was a few months ago. Now, however, I know what it is, and I have proposed a project that I feel good about! This was a great way to conclude English 350: Writing for the Digital Humanities.

